# Motion_Planning_Self_Driving_Car_Coursera
This project implements a functional motion planning stack for autonomous vehicles to avoid both static and dynamic obstacles while tracking the center line of a lane, while also handling stop signs. The path generated by the motion planner is executed by the vehicle controller.

The performance of the motion planner was simulated using the CARLA simulator, which is a modified version of the original CARLA simulator with additional maps included.
To design a reliable motion planner, behavioral planning logic is implemented, as well as static collision checking, path selection, and velocity profile generation. The files named "behavioural_planner.py", "collision_checker.py", "local_planner.py", "path_optimizer.py", and "velocity_planner.py" contains these 5 main aspects of the planner.

# Implemnetation:

Behaviour Planning Logic: use state machine that transitions between lane following, deceleration to the stop sign, staying stopped, and back to lane following, when it encounters a stop sign.

Path Generation: use path optimization to compute a cubit spiral for each given goal point to ensure a confortable and efficient path. The goal points are sampled by laterally offsetting from the goal location along the direction perpendicular to the goal yaw of the ego vehicle.

Static Collision Checking: circle-based collision checking.

Path Selection: eliminate paths that are in collision with static obstacles, and select path according to how closely it follows the lane centerline, and how far away it is from other paths that are in collision.

Velocity Profile Generation: generate a linear ramp and trapezoidal velocity profiles that can handle stop signs, lead dynamic obstacles, as well as nominal lane maintenance, while integrating comfort constaints .
